[
    {"firstName":"Be patient, save your gems", "lastName":"The biggest caveat with any casual free-to-play game is the premium currency system. Just about everything is on some kind of timer, and as you progress, those timers get longer. Don't cave and spend your precious gems on speeding up production. Save them for something important that you get to keep. Make a point to complete achievements and clear natural obstacles to build your gem count. Above all else, gems should be spent on builders huts. After that, there's a wide range of discretion on gem spending. Typically, buying resources outright with gems is a poor use of resources; you're better off boosting your own production buildings. When you do have enough gems, think long and hard about what's important to you in the game, since if you want to get through this without paying dime, it'll take awhile before you make another major purchase. On the flip side, you'll have a hard time getting through the competitive end-game content without spending some cash."},
    {"firstName":"Revenge is a dish best served often", "lastName":"Like it or not, it will often be the case that you get attacked while you are away and your shield is down.  Sometimes you will get plowed, and that sucks – but getting attacked also presents a rare opportunity! When reviewing the list of punks who defaced your village while you were away, you have the choice to “Revenge” – to attack them back. This is a huge strategic advantage, because you can look at their village before attacking, and plan your attack – even train different units for a special assault. I recommend checking their storages (which you can do visually, or better yet by clicking on them and checking their levels), and also the location of their Town Hall. Since you may have a big list to go through, check farmers first (folks that attacked you with just a few units then gave up) since they are likely to have big resource stockpiles. If an opponent is shielded or online, just check back later."},
    {"firstName":"The Wall Breaker Elixir Bank", "lastName":"Did you think your Barracks was just for training troops? Wrong. If you hadn’t noticed yet, you can queue a large number of troops to train, even when you aren’t online. When you queue troops in this way the elixir you need to train them is “spent”, but you can cancel training at no penalty for any queued troop. This means you can queue all of your barracks till they are full, and Elixir spent this way will be “banked” safely away from would-be attackers. When you return to your village, you can cancel the queued troops and recoup your “banked” Elixir. Looking down the roster of potential troops, the Wall Breaker has the highest cost per slot. This makes it an obvious choice. As you increase the level of your Barracks and Wall Breakers you can protect several hundred thousand Elixir this way!"},
    {"firstName":"1250 trophies is what it’s all about", "lastName":"Perhaps it isn’t a big secret that you get 450 gems for reaching 3 stars on the “Sweet Victory” achievement. What could easily be more of a secret is that this is really easy to do. Starting as low as a level 6 Town Hall (maybe even lower), you can search for villages which have a town hall outside of their walls. Taking out this one building guarantees you a star and some trophies. When you are just starting you might think “why would anyone do that?” See Leaving you Town Hall out in the cold. Though you may not yet understand why, plenty of opponents do this – and you need only search diligently until you find such a target, and then take your cups and smile. Editor’s Note: After the 2015 December update, it isn’t quite so easy to snipe Town Halls because you need to get at least 30% destruction in addition to the TH. Maybe this makes “Sweet Victory” a little tougher, but it is still something you should shoot for early."},
    {"firstName":"Raiding and Town Hall level", "lastName":"There are a variety of factors that affect how many resources you can steal from an opponent, but there is one huge one: Town Hall level. If your opponent is at your TH level, or 1 level above or below, you get a 100% modifier on what you can steal. However, if your opponent is 2 levels above you get a 125% modifier, and if 3 levels above you get a 150% modifier. Moreover, that same opponent would get a 50% and 25% modifier (respectively) for any attempt to revenge you. Given the current Town Hall level cap, this makes Town Hall level 7 a very attractive level to farm from. It will be hard to take down TH 9 opponents, but there will be the occasional easy target – but more importantly your resources will be relatively safe from the toughest opponents. Your Town Hall level also affects the cost to search for new opponents when matchmaking, which can really start to add up at the higher levels."},
    {"firstName":"Lightning Spell away mortars", "lastName":"After initially tinkering with each spell, you might start to think Rage is the only way to (or Jump if you’ve unlocked it). These spells are pretty powerful, and offer some huge strategic advantages, but they are also quite expensive and take a long time to create. Maybe you’ve forgotten, or given up on the Lightning spell because it seemed too weak. Well it’s time for a second look. A 4+ star Lightning Spell will almost wipe out a level 4 – 5 mortar. If an opponent has placed a wizard tower or second mortar nearby, you can take out the pair with two spells. Wiping out critical splash damage defenses like this can allow your horde troops (barbs, archers, and goblins) to shred the remaining single target defenses."},
    {"firstName":"Dropping trophies with heroes", "lastName":"If you play the game long enough, at some point you will probably want to ditch some trophies. The game is basically about bullying people smaller than you, and after a meteoric rise you may find that the competition gets a little too tough for your liking. So you want to lose on purpose, but doing so generally costs you troops, training time, and elixir. Enter the hero. If you are lucky enough to have acquired one or both of these titans, you can use them to drop trophies essentially for free. Start a match, drop your hero, and then end the battle before they take any damage. After the fight, you’ll drop some cups, your hero will be ready to get right back in the action – and it costs you nothing!"},
    {"firstName":"Giving your hero a rest", "lastName":"After the version 3.25 patch, the regeneration time of heroes was significantly reduced. However, even for a level 1 hero, an hour can be a long time to wait. So it can be very frustrating when you are in the middle of an intense raiding session, take a five minute bio break, and come back to find that you’ve been attacked and your hero is KO’d. You can fix this! On the hero pedestal the middle button controls whether the hero is in “Guard” or “Sleep” mode. When you toggle it to “Guard” he/she will defend your village when you are away – risking KO. When you toggle it to “Sleep” your hero will sleep safely on his/her pedestal and remain fully charged and available when next you seek to use him/her for raiding."},
    {"firstName":"Saving the Campaign for a last big push", "lastName":"There is a game tip during the load screens which says that if you are need a little more resources you can fight the goblins in the single player campaign. This is true, but if you played the early missions you probably feel that the resource pay out is ridiculously puny – and you’d be right. You can win up to 4.8 million gold and elixir in the campaign, but 3 million of that comes in the last 5 levels. These levels may at first seem impossible, but as you upgrade your units to around level 4-5 you’ll find they aren’t too bad. Also bear in mind that I’m speaking just about poaching them for resources, and not necessarily getting 3 stars. If you save these 5 levels for a rainy day, they can either cover a large portion or the complete balance needed for later upgrades like Town Hall Level 9, Barbs/Archers Level 5, or similar. The fact that you can rack up this loot while you are shielded means that you can get within striking distance while raiding, and then use the campaign to get you to the finish line stress free."},
    {"firstName":"Protecting your Town Hall", "lastName":"Town Halls now hold lots of available loot – destroy them in battle for a big payout! Town Hall destruction no longer grants a Shield – bring your Town Hall inside! Available loot percentage on Town Hall levels 6-10 has been slightly increased"}
    
]
